# [A Framework for Doing](#a-framework-for-doing)

Okay, so on some level, I've reached a conclusion: it feels better to do something than to do nothing. It feels better to do things with others than to do them by myself.

Some things I do are easier to do together with others. I played Fevidek with my friend and my oldest little sister. It was nice. We talked more than we played, but it's fun to occupy ourselves something as well. Why? I don't know. It's an excuse to hang out. Why is an excuse needed? I don't know. But now that the game is completed, we talk about the next game to play, because we want to hang out more. Of course we want to experience the games as well, but the games I play with others I would never have mustered the energy to complete by myself.

Many of the hobbies I've nurtured has had a mix of "doing something by myself" and "doing something with others". In fighting games like Street Fighter, and even more in Marvel VS Capcom, you need to practice by yourself. And then you want to show off what you've learnt by playing with (and hopefully crushing) others. A long time the netcode for fighting games was bad, so it was superior to meet up and play. I still think it is.

Now I play a lot of Magic. You build your deck by yourself, and then you meet others and play. And then the loop starts over. You always have something to talk about. Player drama and stories about games. New or old cards you found synergies with. Cards with cool art.

My experience is that the software I've enjoyed writing the most has worked in similar ways. I write a bit, I show it to someone, I write a bit, show. It becomes a process that makes the brain glow a little bit all the time. It's fun to come up with solutions for problems, and it's fun to share. The problem is that it's kind of hard to find people who stands listening. Many people like to play games. Not as many enjoys hearing details about code that barely grew since last time.

Two days ago I watched the presentation ["What it means to be open" by Lu Wilson at Heart of Clojure 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MJzV0CX0q8o)
It was pretty neat, and inspired me to think a bit more about how I can do things. The gist of it is that Lu had a good time sharing some creation every day, even if it wasn't super interesting.

On the internet there are a lot of nerds who finds nerdy things interesting. Some seem to want to hear about how someone is building something, if things are progressing well or if it's a pain. So maybe there's something there. To build things, and make them accessible to others. Put a little bit of effort into making it relatable to others what I'm doing. Put make-up on the pig. Be inviting, give an excuse to hang out.
